Imagine this: there are rumors going around your school about a mysterious, yet valiant man who has helped Indians all over Africa, as well as India. They say he is going to have a ‘march’ sometime soon. You’re curious about the march, so you decide to see for yourself what the rumors are all about. When you get there, you’re amazed! A massive crowd of thousands, are all following one person; someone dressed very simply, not looking any different from the huge population crowding around him. You slink through the crowd to hear what he’s saying, but are interrupted by the thunderous shouts of, “Gandhi!”, “Mahatma!”, and “Great Soul!”, all of Gandhi’s appellations. During the March you learn all you ever wanted to know about Gandhi and more, but it would’ve saved you a lot of time if you had just read my paper…  The march I just described was Mohandas (later known as ‘Mahatma’) Karamchand Gandhi’s ‘March to the Sea’- one of his many marches to stand up for Indians (Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi). Gandhi did many marches like these, along with fasting, to persuade the world to be peaceful again. Gandhi is considered a hero to the modern world because of his peacemaking in Africa along with  his exposure of peaceful protests to the world. In this essay, I’m going to explain the impact Gandhi’s childhood had on his later life; the hardships he endured; and his legacy and lasting impact as a hero.
	Mohandas’s childhood and family had a large impact on his later life. He was born October 2, 1869, in Porbandar, India (Pastan 14), to his mother, Putlibai, and his father, Karamchand (Hatt 3). His mother was a very spiritual person, whereas his dad was less spiritual, but very hardworking (Furbee 17). Gandhi picked up on those traits, and they built him into the hero he is today. The Gandhi family was Hindu, and his parents especially liked the god Vishnu, the god of moral order (Pastan 6 & 7). His mother prayed and fasted regularly (Pastan 6 & 7)- sometimes even for 2-3 days, and she prayed regularly (Furbee 17 & 18), but she also incorporated other religions into her own (Pastan 6 & 7). Karamchand was the prime minister of their hometown, Porbandar, even though at this time India was ultimately ruled by Britain (Hatt, 6). Although, as soon as Gandhi was 7, his family moved inland to Rajkot, due to his father getting a promotion to Prime Minister (Hatt 8). This was bad news for Gandhi since he was true to his Hindu values, but on the other hand, would at some point need a job. As a schoolboy, Gandhi, as well as other Indians, felt the prejudice of others because of their race and religion (Furbee 17 & 18). Since Britain ruled India at the time of Gandhi’s childhood, Christian Missionaries were everywhere (Furbee 14 & 15). They had a big impact on life for Indian Hindus (Furbee 14 & 15). They would insult Hindus, and if you ever wanted to have a successful job as an adult, you’d have to follow their ways- including eating meat and drinking wine- two Catholic traditions forbidden to Hindus (Furbee 14 & 15). As a child, Mohandas was also never truly interested in his studies (Hatt 8). He was shy and would run home every day to avoid talking to his other classmates (Hatt 8). Even though he wasn’t completely engrossed in school, he showed signs of his older self by refusing to cheat, and never being late (Furbee 20). In high school, Gandhi became more social by making  friends and overcoming his shyness (Furbee 20). However, he also contradicted his earlier self, and surprisingly had a rebellious streak. A school friend once convinced him to steal gold, smoke, and eat meat; all of which were forbidden to Hindus (Furbee 20). Nevertheless, Gandhi still had his morale in him, and was guilty of his sins. Soon after, Gandhi confessed to his father, apologizing for his wrongdoings (Furbee 20). Gandhi says of his experience: “ ‘A clean confession, combined with a promise never to commit the sin again, when offered before one who has the right to receive it, is the purest type of repentance’ ” (Furbee 20). In high school Gandhi was arranged into a marriage with a Hindu girl named Kasturbai (Hatt 8 & 9). She was stubborn, and refused his wishes that she be educated (Hatt, 8 & 9). He matured around that age, and decided that he would go to college (Hatt 9 & 10). When he got there, he didn’t like it as much as he thought he would, so he left after the first trimester (Hatt 10). Soon after leaving college in India he decided he would be best off going to a university in London, leaving behind his wife and new son Harilal to study law (Hatt 9 & 10). He ended up being successful in his pursuits of knowledge, and was ready to face the unknown challenges ahead. This was the start of his life in the big world, and his family and childhood had a lasting impact on him.
	Mahatma Gandhi is known for striving through his hardships, and making the best of bad situations. His later experiences and how he dealt with them show how much of a true hero he is- striving through his hardships with all he had. After Gandhi’s college experience, he came back to India, but his sub castle didn’t accept him back (Hatt, 12). A sub-castle is kind-of like a neighborhood that had a bunch of power over you. Your sub castle determined your social status and typically your job also. His dad died at roughly the same time, so it was hard for Gandhi to earn a living (Hatt, 12). Later on, he finally found a job legalizing documents for the poor (Hatt, 12). Soon after, he got a big law job offering in South Africa, the start of his blossoming career (Demi, 6). During his travels to South Africa, he faced a lot of prejudice because of his race. Once, on a train, Gandhi was sitting in first class, and a white man saw him and demanded that he be kicked out of first class because of he was Indian (Furbee 14). Gandhi refused, seeing as he was doing nothing wrong, and was kicked off of the train (Furbee 14). Gandhi spent the night meditating in the train station (Furbee 14). That night was a turning point in his life (Furbee 14). This was not the only time he faced prejudice either. Once, a guy in a stagecoach forced him to sit on top of the stagecoach instead of inside it, and was declined a hotel room, all because of his race. A white man also tried to make Gandhi move a board beneath the driver of a stage coach’s feet, and when Gandhi refused, was beaten up (Furbee 14). When he got to Natal, South Africa in 1884, he formed the Natal Indian Congress, a group of Indians against the prejudice they were going through (Furbee 14). He also launched the first meeting of Indians in Pretoria, a group targeting racial discrimination by whites, and started to campaign for improved legal status for Indians (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”).  Later on he ended up winning the big law case he was in South Africa for, intending to go right back home to his wife and son (Furbee 14). When Gandhi was about to leave, the Natal Indian Congress set up a dinner in his honor (Furbee 14). There, he caught sight of an anti-Indian newspaper article, told the committee, and they asked Gandhi to help raise awareness of the prejudice Indians were facing. He did publicise the Indian’s fight, and he also arranged petitions against the Franchise Bill; a bill depriving Indians of some of their rights (Furbee 14). He won his law case on the Franchise Bill, and it was redrafted to be more justifying (Furbee 14). Mahatma also wrote ‘The Green Pamphlet’, a short book about the unfortunate situation of the Indians (Furbee 15). In 1896, Gandhi finally returned to India to pick up his wife and son. While he was in India, he spread the word of racial discrimination in South Africa to the people of India (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). News spread of his proclamations, and when he got back to South Africa an angry mob stoned and attempted to lynch him (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Later, in 1907, he urged Indians to defy a law in South America requiring registration and fingerprinting of all Indians (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He was imprisoned for two months because of that (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). After he was released, he bought a farm in Africa where he went back to a simpler life of voluntary poverty and fasting (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). The farm was where he developed the concept of ‘satyagraha’, or soul force (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). This is what Gandhi says about his concept; “ ‘Satyagraha is not predominantly civil disobedience, but a quiet and irresistible pursuit of truth’ ” (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). In January of 1915, he returned back to India with his family. He was arrested plenty more times because of his disobedience; in 1922 Gandhi was tried and arrested initially for six years, but then two years later was released due to his emergency surgery needed to remove his appendix (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He was also arrested 22 years later for proposed non cooperation, and he was also blamed for violence and uprisings, which is ironic, since Gandhi was all for peace (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He spent three weeks fasting in jail, before he got malaria and was released on May 6th, 1944 (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). However, these arrests just gave him more time to grow stronger in faith, and after all, that was primarily the reason for his resistance. Gandhi had a knack for patience, and persisted through even his trickiest challenges.
	Gandhi is famous for many things, and has a legacy that will continue for a long time. He did many good things in both India and Africa to spread equality. One of the things he did in India was improve the life of the ‘untouchables’, the lowest social class in India (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He called them ‘Harijans’, or people of God (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He got people to warm up to them, and also fasted against a British plan for them to have a separate election (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). That was all in September of 1932 (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Another thing he did in India was through 1934 to 1939, he devoted his life to promoting the arts, education, and also having Hindu as the national language (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Besides that, he made a movement called the Khadi Movement- a twenty-one day fast encouraging Indians to buy and make Indian-made goods (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). He also started the ‘March to the Sea’, which was a protest against the tax on Indian salt. In Africa, he got a law declaring Indian marriages to be validated (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Besides that, he also got rid of the former tax on Indian labor- due to the former tax on Indian labor versus the non existent tax on African labor, people would most often choose African labor, since it costed less, and this brought Indian revenue down (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Beyond the political help, Gandhi also brought self-respect and dignity back to the Indians. However, not everything was going fine and peaceful in Gandhi’s world. In India during 1946, an opposer of Gandhi, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, made August 16th ‘Direct Action Day’, and and more than 5,000 people were killed and more than 15,000 injured- all in the small town of Calcutta (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”)! The fight was against Hindus and Muslims living together, and it spread beyond Calcutta, infecting India with the distress of war (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Gandhi refused to leave his home until the violence died down, and threatened to fast to the death (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Because of his huge impact on India, twenty-one days later Hindu and Muslim leaders agreed not to kill anymore, and Gandhi put a halt to his fast. Later, in the March of 1947 the British ruler at the time, Lord Mount Batten came to India with the hopes of removing Britain from India by April of the next year (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). The Congress of India agreed, and celebrated afterwards (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). However, all was still not well in India, and on January 13th, 1948, Gandhi started to fast again, this time for Indian unity (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). Later that month, January 30th, Gandhi was shot and killed while attending prayers by Nathuram Godse, a 35 year-old anti-Indian newspaper editor (“Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi”). 
Gandhi was raised in a very spiritual household, and that greatly impacted his later motives. Shockingly, he was a rebellious teenager, in contrast with his shy childhood, and that spark of defiance was carried with him in his later years (Furbee 20). Soon after he got married at 13, he went to college in India, but disliked it and quit after the first semester. After that, he decided to attend a college in London to better help his education of law (Hatt 9). He and later was offered a job in South Africa (Demi 6). When he got there, he was surprised at the anti-Indian politics there. He also started the Natal Indian Congress, and united the Indians (Furbee 14). He fought (not literally, of course- he was all for peaceful protests) not only in Africa, and not only for Indians, but for everyone seeking equality everywhere. He used different techniques, including marches, fasts, and other peaceful protests to make the world better. Gandhi is known as a hero nowadays due to his perseverance and search for justice in the world, and standing up for those who can’t stand up for themselves. Gandhi has made a colossal impact on the modern world, from inspiring Martin Luther King Jr.’s peaceful protests, to ordinary people’s everyday pursuit of truth. Gandhi has become a household name, representing peace, justice, and perseverance. After all, that is the makings of a hero! It makes one wonder- what would the world be like without Gandhi’s influence?